Welcome back to digital
forensic concepts.
In this course, course 10,
we're going to talk
about network basics.
In overview of this course,
we're going to define
what a network is.
We're going to talk about
how a network functions.
How does the data get
across our network?
We're going to talk about IP and
MAC addresses and what they are,
and how they're used
in network protocols,
and how they're used throughout
the network to complete
transmissions of data.
We're also going to talk about
Internet protocols
and the OSI model.
In Module 1, we're going to
define the network and
we're going to talk about the
functions of the network.
What is a computer network?
Well, a computer network is
defined as a collection of
computers linked together
for communication
and sharing of data
and other resources.
You might have a network in
your home where you share
a printer and you could share
data between the computers.
If you work in a
business environment,
you might have a larger scale
network that you use at work.
A LAN, or a local area network,
is a group of computers linked
together in a small area,
generally, it's one
geographical location.
It could be in one building or
a small home office,
whereas a WAN,
a wide area network,
is a group of computers linked
together over a large
geographical area.
This can span city,
states, and even countries.
The data is transferred across
this network in things
called packets.
These packets have a header,
a footer, and a payload.
The header, much
like a file header,
tells computers what type
of service they are,
are they TCP, UDP.
They tell us the source,
where these packets came
from, the destination,
where the packets are going,
and each packet has a
sequence number and flags.
Now, the footer tells
the receiving device
that it has reached
the end of the transmission.
The footer also has error
checking and usually that's in
a CRC format which stands for
cyclical redundancy check.
Of course, the payload is
the actual data contained
within the packet.
We're going to talk about
the parts of a network.
What are the hardware parts
that make up our network?
Well we have routers.
A router is something you
would have in your house,
and you would also have
that in a larger network.
Routers provide
Internet connection
to a local area network.
A router operates at
layer 3 of the OSI model.
That is the network layer.
We're going to cover the OSI
model in a later course.
A router connects devices within
a network by forwarding
data packets between them.
This data can be sent between
devices or to the Internet.
The router assigns
a local IP address
to the device on the network.
Hub. Now, a hub,
unlike a router,
broadcasts out to everybody
that is on that network.
Hubs operate at the
physical layer of
OSI Layer 1 of a network.
They are used to connect
multiple devices in a network.
Now, it can have
multiple connections
and they pass on anything they
receive on one connection to
all the other connections.
There is no filtering
by IP or MAC addresses.
With the router, we had
the filtering by IP,
but with the hub, we do not.
Switches are also
part of a network.
A switch operates at OSI layer 6,
which is the data link layer.
This connects the
device to the network.
It also does its
filtering by MAC address.
It uses MAC addresses to route
the packets to where
they need to go,
unlike the router which
uses the IP addresses.
In our next module,
we're going to talk about IP and
MAC addresses, what they are.
We've already talked
about how they're
used with routers and switches,
but we're going to talk
more about what they do,
the functions of them,
and how they work
on our networks.